# Transcript

**Source:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8XSssH3B_Dk
**Date:** 2025-08-28 16:02:54
**Provider:** whisper

---

## Content


In the next minute alone, there's going to be over 2,500 videos uploaded to YouTube. That's over 2
million videos a day. So if you're someone who wants to start or grow a YouTube channel, how do you
stand out?

We've asked that question to hundreds of professional YouTubers over the past 10 years, and we
pulled out 38 minutes of the best advice from the Colin and Samir show. YouTube is not a video
platform. It's a click and watch platform.

It's a platform that people have to decide what to view. Even when you compare it to other video
platforms like TikTok, TikTok feeds you content based on your algorithm, based on your watch
history, and they're really good at it. But YouTube longform, at least, is still a decision
platform.

So to me, the first step is always just really nailing down what ideas we're going to make for a
channel. So when I think about these smaller channels that are growing really quickly, it's usually
that they have actually invested more time into ideation. I recently had a channel in our
accelerator program, Ian Lore Astro.

He's an Astrophotography channel. And there was nothing terribly wrong with how he was making the
videos. Like the videos are pretty good, but they were doing 2,000 or 3,000 views a video.

And I'd love to take a lot of credit for it, but the rail that it is is we were just like, hey, like
spend more time in ideation, study what's working in other niches, try to build a video that we
define as having a CCN fifth. It hits the core audience, it hits the casual audience, and it hits
the new audience all the same time, which sounds easy, but it's actually quite hard, because
sometimes what's really interesting to a new audience, it's a core audience. And sometimes what's
really interesting to a core audience is just narrowing the total potential market the video can
hit.

He changed it from maybe being a situation where he was spending 5% of time on idea tile thumbnail
to maybe spending 30% of time on idea tile thumbnail. And he made a video that got a million views
and did I think 270 times his average viewership. It just said video just with astro-partography at
different time levels.

And it was built on a former that worked for other people. It was really interesting to see just how
big of a multiplier YouTube can be. Can you break down why that title thumbnail works as opposed to
like, I photographed the Milky Way?

I think because immediately that poses like an interesting question of like, what do the different
levels of time investment look like for this thing? There's also like a clear comparison, whether it
be a body transformation, whether it be like a $1 jet versus like $100 billion jet or whatever. I
think viewers are just fascinated by comparisons and seeing how different things take different
amounts of time or investment.

And also that format makes for a really interesting thumbnail because you can show the different
levels of effort and how that follows it ends up coming out. But those little differences can just
have such outside returns, which it breaks my brain sometimes. We worked with this creator, his name
was Tim Gabe and hit a video which was six UI hacks.

And someone on my team helped advise him on just like a tiny thumbnail change. And the difference
between the thumbnail yet before and the thumbnail yet afterwards was I would say maybe it was like
30, 40% better the one afterwards. Like it wasn't a huge difference.

But the video ended up getting 40 times more views per day. And that's what breaks my brain. And I
think what a lot of creators like fail to realize is how much of a difference those small details
can make.

Sometimes it is about just like realizing where you need to invest more time and focus and just
improving those details. If you want to be a successful creator, you have to embrace the fact that
your audience is not only the final audience, but they're also your focus group. Traditional media,
you've got the focus group and then you've got the intended audience.

That distinction goes away. Your fans are your focus group. And if you don't listen to them, you're
not going to be a successful creator long term.

There's two aspects to your content. There's the product and there's the performance. And a lot of
really creatively purest people can never accept that the performance of the content.

And so therefore, like the marketing, the title and the thumbnail are important and potentially just
as important or more important than the content itself. Now we've always said the content is king
and we want to have a great product and we're never going to let that suffer. But getting people to
watch that is such an important part of it.

You don't brace the quality of the product and then the performance itself of that product. It just
can't happen. It's going to lose too much steam.

We have the most uptight process for launching a new YouTube channel that I've ever heard of. And we
had basically for lack of a better term, like an actual playbook. And it comes from just an
over-weaning amount of preparation ahead of time.

We research every vertical that we go into. We watch everything in that vertical. We understand how
the hosts talk to the audiences.

We understand the colors they use. How long they episodes are. How often they post.

What their opening lines are. Whether they have a theme song or not. Whether titles include do their
titles include punctuation.

Do their thumbnails involve a white stroke on the outside of everyone's head? Whatever it is, we
know everything about the vertical before we even decide to go into it. And then from there, we
decide, okay, can we play in this space?

Where aren't people saying the things that we would like to say? Are there enough collaborators in
this space that we think we could be part of a community in this ecosystem? And then from there,
it's like, okay, what would we actually say?

And we come up with literally a year's worth of content titles and log lines. If you don't have, I
mean, maybe more than that. It was like 100.

It's like 100. 100 titles and log lines. And then from there, going back to the playbook idea, it's
once we've kind of developed all this list, once we've done all this research, and once we've got to
go ahead, we have to launch with five videos, like day one, five videos.

It's not launch on an empty channel. It's not, here's the only one. It's five videos that within
those five videos give you the thesis of the channel.

Here are the range of things we're going to talk about. Here's how they're going to look. Here's how
they're going to sound.

Here's an episode about hygiene. Here's an episode about clothing and personal style. Here's an
episode about, you know, a real life experiment where we do something wacky, like try to kill you
with a high heel.

You know, and here's something really well. Did it? Great.

People were really excited to kill things with high heels. Yeah. And when we're going in for an
actual channel launch, we also focus all of the attention on it, right?

Style theory is a great example. We got to a million subscribers in 62 hours, right? Yeah.

Because we intentionally sent people to a channel with everything we had from every other channel.
We pointed straight at it and said go watch this right now. And when they landed there, they landed
on five 20-minute episodes.

If you make it through all those episodes, it's a hundred minutes of watch time on a brand new
channel. We actually got flagged or something. YouTube thought we were like spamming.

We were spamming because of them. They tried to demonetize the channel. There were problems early on
because YouTube's like internal systems.

It couldn't handle all of the watch minutes that were suddenly flooding to this new channel. That
was that's super interesting, I think. We have like some principles of a good YouTube intro from
what we've seen.

Upon click, the first seven seconds of a video is about confirming the click. It's just like is this
matching my expectations? Or is it cliff bait, you mean?

Yeah. Yeah. So basically our first release one.

Or even is it just slightly off? Got it, right? Like, did they stretch just even a little bit
further than what I was expecting?

So obviously, Mark Rover not there. Yeah. Yeah.

That'd be a good example. Exactly. Or is Mark Rover on Zoom?

Yeah. Where it's like, oh, I'm going to send him a recipe and see that immediately. That's a
different expectation.

So when I see you, Mark and like a crazy pizza that's exploding like a volcano in the thumbnail,
right? Yeah. Yeah.

And so then in the first seven seconds, basically, I see, okay, Mark's actually there with you.
That's super important. Yeah.

The next like 10 seconds, we talk about making it personal. Yeah. It's like, why are you the one to
make him a master chef?

So you're about to take him to Intense Culinary Bird Camp. You're in the chef's coat. If I don't
know who you are, I immediately assume, all right, this guy's a legit.

Yeah. Yeah. And then basically by, you know, we typically say by 30 seconds, but you do this at 15
seconds, you have to introduce a new hook.

Yep. And so what you do here is you say, and we're going to take him through three tests that he has
to pass. I think important too, that the audience now knows what they're waiting for.

Yeah. There's, we were just in New York and we were talking to Max Joseph. He was talking about how
every great story needs an A to Z.

So the audience needs to be informed. What is A and what is Z? Yeah.

And Z, meaning like, when is the video over? And so you introduce these three challenges and you go,
once he does these three, that's when the video is over. He hasn't done the three.

The video is not over. Yep. And we're seeing this a lot.

Like, Robert does it. Jimmy does this a lot in his videos where we call it like the video game map
where they kind of zoom out. And they're like, but that's one of six challenges that we're doing in
this video, right?

Yeah. And they zoom out and you're going, oh, cool. I want to get there.

Yeah. The A to Z map. Those graphics, like people are using those kind of flashy intense, I don't
take it quite that far where I'm doing the really crazy effects and that kind of thing.

Yeah. But I, I mean, I think it's really cool. Everything is a list.

This is some like, you know, in, I think this is advice from like nonfiction writing. Fundamentally,
every nonfiction book is a listicle. It's just like sometimes packaged up in a non-listicle kind of
way.

Atomic habits is a listicle. The four habits of behavior change, four hour work week is a listicle.
Everything is a listicle at the end of the day.

Interesting. And so this is something that we say to our students in the YouTube Academy. When in
doubt, just think about list.

If you were talking to yourself from two years ago, what is three or five or seven, what we like, we
like our numbers, three or five or seven things you would have wanted to know and then just talk
about those things. And that's it. Everything is a listicle at the end of the day.

I help you organize your thoughts. Yeah. It's so good.

Totally. And then for the audience, you have to get to the end. Yeah.

You know, one of one of the philosophies that we teach on our YouTube Academy, which is like my
whole philosophy of YouTube is find a way to systemize it as much as possible. It's completely
unsustainable if you're having to reinvent the wheel every single time. Yeah.

Which is why I don't envy entertainment YouTubers because they are having to reinvent the wheel
every single time. Yeah. But as a educational YouTuber, all you need is a title of thumbnail and
list.

And title thumbnail list with like a reasonable hook or promise. I don't even like the word hook
because it sounds too like a promise. Yeah.

Yeah. Yeah. Exactly.

Just like a promise. What is the video actually about? You know, the title is 17 purchases that save
me time.

In this video, we're going to talk about 17 purchases that save me time. Number one is a panel. But
I like that framework of like, you know, all you need is is a idea thumbnail or just a title
thumbnail and a list.

Yeah. Yeah. That's so good.

That's so good. I think number one on the laws of writing good videos. I would love to hear the laws
of writing good videos.

Law number one, control the scope. Make sure the point isn't too broad. Keep it narrow.

Keep it focused. Love that. Number two, don't waste the viewers time.

It's almost the same one again. What is the point? Make your point as concisely as possible.

Number three, load up the learning outcomes. And this one's really important to me because I feel
like our role is to make you feel at the end. Like you got more than just, you know, like
marshmallows and cheese whiz.

You know, like you got something of substance after you consume our content plan for flow. Some
ideas will have a natural order. You know, it could be physical outside to inside.

It could be temporal beginning to end. It could be conceptual. Start with the background info,
current events, future speculation, you know, but make sure that you have a clear idea.

Five, make it personal, provide context. It's not always obvious how good a screen is, how
impressive someone's subscriber count is. Right.

Remember who you're talking to. You know, not every video is for everyone. So you guys are going to
see this a lot, right?

Sometimes you guys are going to do a video that's really targeting brand new creators who've never
done anything. Yep. And sometimes you guys are going deep into the weeds for people who, if they
don't have like a million subscribers, it's probably not applicable.

Don't worry about it. Yep. Right?

Plan for the payoff. Really important to me. Talent show us how to feel.

Men. And this is part of this is part of the context one too. Provide context.

When you're presenting to the camera, it captures a fraction of your energy. It captures a fraction
of your emotion. So you have to overdo it.

If you don't overdo it, you end up just flat and boring. Number 10, have fun. The audience's
bullshit detector is like finely tuned.

Yeah. Finally tuned. If they can tell that you don't give a shit, why should they give a shit?

What process or structure would you recommend for someone who maybe has never even written scripts
before? You're basically just thinking about how do I re-hook them every time we move from one
segment to the next? How do I make it completely clear at all times what this particular segment is
going to be about?

So is essentially the transition between each segment? Is that essentially introducing a new
problem? So like a rhythm of problem and solution?

Yes. Yeah. Exactly.

That's a really good way of thinking about it. So if we take it another way and think of an
entertainment thing, someone like Max Fosh is trying to break into an aquarium or something and we
will have it set up that the first segment is, but first I needed to get myself a giant fish costume
or something. And so we know, right, okay, the first problem he's encountering is he needs to buy
this giant costume and then say over the course of the segment, he buys the costume, he makes his
way to the aquarium and then he discovers something like, but then I realized the costume was too
big for me to fit in the door and then you realize, okay, so the next problem we're dealing with is
how does he actually gain access to the building?

And so like, I think the way you put it on this perfect, it's like you, you, you're just
continuously raising a problem, solving it and then immediately raising another problem and solving
it. Really the most key thing when we're talking about this problem solution way of approaching it
is that you can't leave the audience in between setting up the next solution for too long. So you
resolve a problem, you resolve that segment, the audience needs to know what's coming next.

They can't be left in that kind of middle ground limbo where they don't know what the next segment
is going to be about because the brain will start to wonder that homepage is just one click away.
They need to be kept focused on, okay, they've resolved one problem and now they've set up the next
one. What's coming next?

I think what comes to mind for me is that it's not necessarily about like pace of editing, it's pace
of new problems. Like I think people can often confuse pace of editing with pace of new problem that
like it doesn't actually matter if you're moving quickly, but if you don't have a new problem, then
you'll lose people. So that was actually George Blackman who's a professional YouTube script writer
and that conversation was from our course called the YouTube Growth Playbook.

The YouTube Growth Playbook is a step-by-step system for growing a YouTube channel. It's based off
of our 15 years of experience on the platform as well as our hundreds of interviews with
professional creators. It's all centered around the three rules of YouTube.

Now to help you take what you're learning in this video and put it into practice, we put together a
free worksheet that you can download just by clicking the link in our description and putting in
your email. All right, now we're going to talk about packaging and thumbnails with Cleo Abram. I
noticed in watching your videos over the last year and a half that your thumbnails have changed a
lot and I feel like they've improved a lot like in the quality of the graphic design, in the
composition, in the clickability of just like telling a story between the title and the thumbnail.

What was that process like for you? What did you learn about YouTube titles and thumbnails that has
taken you to where you are today? I sort of feel like a machine learning algorithm in this way where
I'm just like pattern matching and it's hard to describe exactly what the steps were.

But maybe it was you guys, maybe it was someone else, the three step, the three things rule that you
want to have three things and all the other things. That's been really helpful. Thinking about the
thumbnail as part of the story, like noticing what I like, I have a big deck.

It was a lot of titles and thumbnails that I admire and then I just look through and I tried to
articulate why I admired them so much and a lot of it had to do with like Tom Scott's relationship
between his titles and his thumbnails and the way that he's in action in many of them and there's an
arrow that's pointing to something specific and I love that. Sometimes it's tricky because I'm
trying to maybe include my own face probably because it's sort of a signal that this is a show that
people have clicked on before but also include something that is not necessarily like me in action
in the field, sometimes I'm in the field but sometimes I'm not. And then also I think there's a
certain amount of creative confidence that it takes to make something, I mean first something on
YouTube in general but also to put out a title and a thumbnail that doesn't try to be everything and
sort of assumes that you're going to create that curiosity gap and that people will click it and
that it will work.

I think very early on I was trying to like put the whole video in the title and thumbnail and now
I'm a little bit more relaxed about it and that's actually helped and so it's an exercise in
choosing those three things and like making that actually work. Something really interesting about
your thumbnails and we're speaking with you yesterday about this is that realism is really important
to you. And that is not necessarily the YouTube meta, like that's not really what's fully happening
across YouTube, right?

Realism. How much do you think about that? Care about that?

Where the brand of being a creator goes? Yeah, that's, I think it's super important. I think for a
while it's something that I thought was just a like assigned to me like the idea of oh I'm if I want
to be creator I have to be like Mr. Beast and ZHC like I have to have a logo as my channel name and
my channel like profile picture and I actually did that.

I like changed my profile picture to like an eyeball. Was it even mean? What is it?

What does that have to do with me? And I did it because I was like I was thinking is one of those
correlations is not causation type of situations where I was like looking at the top and seeing what
they do. Not realizing that I'm just a human being.

I'm like not planning to build an empire. I don't want to build an empire or anything. I just want
to connect with people and make videos I love and so it is important to be intentional.

Like I think about even how fonts communicates people. Like I changed my font from being somewhat
more corporate to something that's like so normal. That's just like everyone's computer and it just
feels more like me and I think that like if creators can find those little things like what song
just feels like me what font feels like me what video feels like me and it comes down to realism too
like with the thumbnails and I found that realistic thumbnails just feel like me it feels like yeah
if my face is not like I feel more connected to the to the thumbnail.

If I'm just making a very subtle face that's because it's realistic and I'm like oh that's legit.
Also the concepts that you do are rooted in realism. They don't feel sensational.

The titles might be somewhat sensational. I spent 24 hours in the world's quietest room or a loudest
room like there's a superlative there. That fits into what performs on YouTube.

Then when you watch it a lot of it is rooted in the relationship you have with the guy who runs the
room. Like the people you meet you've done such a good job of creating characters out of those
people. One of my absolute favorites is the underwater hotel.

Yes. So fun. The guy you meet.

Yeah what's his name? Daniel. Daniel.

Yes, sweet Daniel. Hello. Hello.

Now another thing is in your sensory deprivation video. You also showed this moment of really
vulnerable raw emotion. Yeah.

Can you talk a little bit about the decision of keeping that in or not keeping that in? Yeah that
was wild. So I got in the sensory deprivation tank and it's like at first there was lights and
floating and sound and then hour two I turned off the lights so it was just floating and sound hour
three.

I actually put your plugs in so it was just floating. Like those your plugs were crazy. Those are
some nice your plugs.

And I had a moment in there where I actually felt like I had these like recessed memories about my
grandmother and just like the last time I felt super super still. And it was just taking a nap with
her one summer when I in like 2008 when I was just super young. And it was wild because I literally
started crying.

I guess they're bawling and it's so funny because Zach helps edit the videos and normally I'll like
help talk I'll like kind of talk to him through the video. I'm like there was funny like those cool
we should definitely like put them in the video. And with that I felt so uncomfortable because I
knew Zach was going to watch it.

And I was like I just didn't say anything like that so anyways. And so we actually talked about it
afterwards and he was like do we should put this in the video. Those are the moments we crave even
like off camera.

Now human level we crave those like real emotions real conversations. And so that was a huge like
turning points to me to realize like I'm a human like I may I have a YouTube channel but those in
the moments that matter and so many great comments came from that just like empathizing with me and
people sharing their experiences. The last time they felt still or like how their grandparents
impacted their life so.

Cool twist when it comes to retention. Obviously there's things you can do in the first 30 seconds
the first minute. Are there checklist items you have to get people to 10 minutes to 15 to 20?

Yeah I mean it's very hard with a single storyline if you're doing like a double digit minute video
to just have that one thing grip their entire tension throughout the whole video and pay off at the
end. So typically if you're doing a longer video you should introduce like a side story and like
read you should have some plan halfway through like to reengage them so they'll just get bored you
know what I mean like if I just said like if I hand you a camera and I had a camera it's like okay
if he tags me he gets a hundred grand and then I just run and that's it it's just me running through
the woods and him just running through the woods after me you can't make a 15 minute video out of it
you know what I mean but if I do that and then like three minutes in I pull a lever and a bear comes
out start chasing him and he has to get away from the bear I don't know obviously we wouldn't do
this but kill the bear and then he starts chasing me and then six minutes in I jump across the lake
and as he goes to jump through I press a button that shoots him to the moon whatever you know what I
mean like now of a sudden it's interesting and you're watching right and that's it right one is just
a single story and it's boring the other has side stories that like re-engaged people what is the
recipe to a like successful try guys video if you look at it and you're like I know right now what's
gonna work or what what performs we don't make as many classic try videos we you know food has been
our best successor but there's a through line in all of them which is we are going to do something
that is related to a commonly held passion or identity so whether that's ballet oh I grew up doing
the play or my little sister did or I've always wondered what that's like or making a pie and then
we have an expert who is going to be the source of authority yeah and now we get to be the crash
test dummies then there's a lot with how we craft that as well which is you know contrast editing so
experts says now no matter what don't do this cut to Keith doing this right that's and also we like
to have an arc most of our best videos we'll follow a three-act structure we have a first act break
at the second act break we do have the dark night of the soul where the characters at their lowest
so that we can then see them triumphantly rise and use something they learned earlier and succeed
and I think a lot of our best videos also have to have some stakes whether that's a performance or
got it feeding what we've done to a judge that's also a sense of reveal but we've learned a ton on
how to structure videos based on audience retention and that's learning that once they see the big
reveal at the end the video is over so now if you have any reflection where we've gone through this
incredibly transformative emotional experience you need to start hearing the reflection during the
final performance the final reveal whatever because once we're done revealing you got 30 seconds
videos over when I pitched to a brand I always talk about like the psychology of consumption this is
now this is some cringe stuff all marketing um I don't know if you guys know but like the principles
of influence let's hear how we consume things and our influence by things every bit of feeling and
emotion we evoke can be categorized into one of these six things scarcity when you say someone is
mysterious and has aura that's what psychologically you're trying to describe like you upload once
every eight months and it's like a big deal that's a Michael Reeves that's like you know someone
who's uploading high quality low quantity content that's get people like that right consistency the
opposite of that in a sense it's like uploading every day like it's almost like when you come home
from school or work it's like oh I'm gonna watch this creator I've come to like almost make it a
part of my routine and you could also combine those two right like you can upload every year but you
do so consistently so you can combine those two principles of influence reciprocity that was a big
part of kid with crocs where it's like this is a new account and I am kid with crocs I would always
respond to fans and like the first thousand people that followed me I followed them back and like
just had full conversations with them and so now these people are like rooting for me and in a way
like I am not like like manipulatively thankful like I'm just thankful like you're here for the star
and like I would talk to them and like those thousand people who I like gave reciprocity to were in
it from this first second to the last second and like now they're like fans of what I do and like
that's such a like lovely feeling both ways right consensus or social liking this is super important
it's like you are more likely to watch a video that already has a million likes because it is that
social proof like oh it already people already like it right it's the same reason why it's really
hard to go from an account with you know zero followers zero likes to a thousand likes but it's
pretty easy to go from like a million likes to a million and a half likes right yeah yeah that's
kind of an obvious one similarity it's what we talked about before it's like you want something that
feels similar but is ultimately different and creative that's where like creativity comes in right
you need to be able to understand how people consume content and then like innovate on that right so
it's like you know there's best practices like having your face in the first frame and like having
text on the screen but also like if you follow every single thing in the rule book people won't care
it's already been done right and that's where like some of my weird creative urges come out where
it's like I have a character and I animate and I make music for the videos right and then authority
it's like if you it's like if you're a doctor like doctor Mike right people should care about that
or if you're already a big creator you already have that like yep paythos right is that like a smart
word chat is that smart I'm seeing some nods in the back let's go right sorry to yeah so those that
is how I think about how culture and consumption works and this is all been deep rooted in my brain
and I learned this in AP psych back in like sophomore year of high school as I started like making
content and this set of guidelines is like not failed me you one time told me about hiding the
vegetables hmm I'm curious if you can explain that concept 100% um hiding the vegetables is like one
of the core principles we have for how we tell stories which is you know you give someone a plate of
broccoli they're not going to want to eat it the wholesome and the intentional and and kind of
important premise in the story is a little bit hidden we know when we used to 2016 2017 we do these
videos that were very positive and the thumbnail expression all yeah like you know helping a mom for
you know mother's day and like nobody clicked on it you know but now instead of thinking about it
that way you know we might come up with an experience that is more outward facing and feels more
flashy and interesting and helping the mom would be a part of that experience but it's not the title
and thumbnail it's the the intentional and um you know caring part of the storytelling that is super
important to us if we feel like the video doesn't have any vegetables it feels like it lacks that
deeper level of connection that I think our audience has gone used to having when they watch our
videos and so um I think it's a really smart thing to think about as a creator you know and yeah
because I think there is a level of needing to be mindful of of your ideas that you distribute to
the world for people to be interested in watching them and if you're only distributing vegetables I
think you can you can build an audience but they're going to by default be a lot smaller and we like
we figured that out like our growth and everything changed positivity by itself will not sell
goodness on its own will not sell so how do you actually take these things that are the core of what
we do and make it more consumable to an audience of someone that might not care yeah is there a rule
that you think it's okay to break I feel like some of the stuff we're talking about of like ending
with failure yeah that in the beginning I would not have had the confidence to attempt that but I
think from beginning till now you take risks along the way and and then you're taking notes as okay
that was like a risk taking collecting data oh never take that risk again got okay it took another
risk oh that one there was more of a response there I remember the first song I ever did was for the
jetpack video to be a busy huge risk in my head I'm like I can't make music for a YouTube video that
breaks the rules like it completely broke the rules in my head and then the comments were very
affirming I'm like that was weird and fun and we like the song but I think it's only come from like
slowly building the confidence to take more risks and yeah feel like I'm comfortable looking dumb if
you're not comfortable failing publicly yeah it is it is so important in this weird job we have yeah
yeah there's this clip where the creators of South Park are speaking to a class and they said that a
really bad story will go like this it'll go this happened then this happened then this happened then
this happened and you think like that's it's an extremely boring way to intake information yeah and
what you want is a story that goes this happened but then that happened therefore this happened so
you want some causation between the beads in your story and I think that's something that could
exist completely in a tech video or you're saying here's this new phone that was just launched
history has shown us that it's been really incredible it's been an incredible line of products but
this one is different um therefore you should think differently right and if you can keep that going
throughout you'll hook people and keep them longer unfortunately when you invent something or you
create something it will inevitably be copied as much as you know we can be honored that people like
admire something that we did it can mess with your head and it can and it can uninspire you it also
though pushes you to do something new like I remember first watching your stuff and being like whoa
this is this is different you know like this is in yeah like you know your head was like exploding
at times like yeah were you aware that you were doing something unique because the amount of videos
on YouTube that are like learn how to edit like Emma Chamberlain or like how many people then did
that exact style were you aware that you were creating a style like what was what was that era for
you actually I don't think I've ever told the story maybe I have in high school my friends and I
used to do these like dance routines like we'd make dance routines I was a cheerleader some of my
friends were cheerleader some of them were dancers whatever but we make these like funny dance
routines we'd film them on the webcam of my laptop during lunch and then during my next class which
was history I would edit them on i movie I mean this was just simply for my friends and eyes enjoy
enjoyment right the reason why I zoomed in was so that you could see it better it wasn't like for
emphasis or for that then I started to become obsessed I was like this is so fun like editing these
dance routines is what makes it funny like zooming into one of my friends faces doing this doing
that and I don't even remember how that happened it was such an automatic thing from there like I
didn't do that on YouTube at first my dad gave me the advice he was like you should treat your
YouTube channel how you treated those videos that you used to make with your friends and I was like
oh something clicked and then I was like I'm just gonna take that editing style over and the editing
for me was very intuitive it was like this needs to be emphasized this doesn't this like there's no
formula it was just like what's gonna make this funny to me short form content is driving more
algorithmic discovery I would argue that like at the beginning before you found medium-arket fit
like the most the best strategy is no strategy it's like speed of iteration try a lot of things see
what you love find your voice find yourself step two again if I'm thinking about how to do it as a
creator in 2025 you have to move beyond shorts now you don't have to but there are dangers if you
don't it becomes harder to build a direct to fan community and a direct to fan business there are
creators who have figured this out but because fans are less willing and likely to pay for short
form content and because when you're at the ultimate top layer of the internet you are more subject
to the whims of the platform's direction of traffic there's a it's it's a more volatile environment
to build a long-term sustainable business versus finding a format like you guys have found where
you've got this repeatable long-form thing that your audience enjoys every week and you have these
you know you have like these long conversations and people are listening to them and building
loyalty to you and building loyalty to the format I think there's a key step if I'm doing it as a
creator is like find my audience on shorts and then figure out after that how do I build a long-form
media format and and a tighter community around that format I would say that's step two whenever
people ask about starting out they're like oh I really like tech I want to make videos about tech
any tips for starting make sure you really do like tech right and you can make videos about tech
every day for the next year and maybe it was kind of get sick of it like that's that's real that's a
real valid feeling to have and so I often equate becoming a professional video creator and tech or
an any product related thing kind of like becoming a professional athlete everyone can have fun
making videos and everyone can have fun let's say playing basketball for example go to the park with
your friends playing basketball whatever but turning it into a job requires not just a high level of
skill but like an extra level of time dedication and like actual resources being poured into it to
get to the very peak level to be able to turn it into your job yeah and that's the same thing with
with making videos I love what you just said because at the beginning of my own personal channel and
I think a lot of creators experience this you just want to throw as much stuff at the wall see what
sticks yeah and you're really going for views or at least I right you do what you can reviews but
then I sort of got to this point where half the content on my channel was stuff that when people
recognize me on the street I was like you know I don't know if I I want to be known for the other
stuff I'm doing not not this category a I want to be known for category B which for me was these
deep intensive challenges I was doing so my goal was to reduce as much of category A and pump it all
into B and now I I only want to do content I love and I think that it's a it's a tough investment to
make because you might see a you know it's hard to avoid the low hanging fruit you know when you see
an opportunity for oh I could make that video or that short and it'll do super super well and to say
no to that and invest in something you care about more but I've actually found that the return on
that investment is even better because brands respect you more over time subscribers respect you
more because they really have they know that they're coming for high quality every single time
because you know a YouTube channel is a resume but it's a very interesting resume because when a
brand or anyone you know a potential partner even a potential subscriber comes to look at it you
can't control what they're going to click on and that one thing they click on could make or break
why they decide to work with you or subscribe to you and I want to make sure every single piece of
content even if it doesn't have a ton of views is one that shows the quality of the channel. Alright
if you like the advice from this video then I think you'll like this video where Colin and I
workshop a video with a creator taking her from averaging around a thousand views a video to this
specific video doing well over a hundred thousand views.


---

## Analysis

**User Request:** Extract all tips about YouTube growth

# ACTIONABLE PLAYBOOK
======================================================================
**Your Request:** Extract all tips about YouTube growth

## 📋 ANALYSIS
1. **Direct Response to User's Question:**
   To grow on YouTube, creators should focus on crafting engaging content, leveraging psychological principles, and maintaining consistency. These strategies are supported by frameworks and systems that prioritize audience retention, content quality, and strategic engagement.

2. **Supporting Frameworks and Evidence:**
   - **Engagement through Storytelling:** Utilize a three-act structure in videos to maintain viewer interest. Introduce side stories or unexpected elements to re-engage viewers, especially in longer videos. This approach prevents monotony and keeps the audience invested.
   - **Psychological Principles:** Apply principles such as scarcity and consistency. Scarcity can be achieved by creating high-quality content that is released less frequently, building anticipation. Consistency involves regular uploads, creating a routine for viewers.
   - **Reciprocity and Social Proof:** Engage with your audience by responding to comments and fostering a community. This builds loyalty and encourages viewers to support your channel. Social proof, such as high like counts, can attract new viewers by signaling quality and popularity.
   - **Authority and Similarity:** Establish authority by showcasing expertise or collaborating with experts. Create content that resonates with viewers' identities or passions, making it relatable yet unique.

3. **Specific Metrics and Examples:**
   - **Audience Retention:** Monitor when viewers drop off in your videos. Adjust content structure to maintain engagement, such as introducing new elements at key moments.
   - **Upload Frequency:** Balance between scarcity and consistency. For example, a creator might upload high-quality videos monthly, ensuring each release is an event.
   - **Engagement Rates:** Track metrics like comments and likes to gauge community involvement and adjust strategies to enhance interaction.

4. **Actionable Next Steps:**
   - **Content Planning:** Develop a content calendar that balances high-quality production with consistent uploads. Consider incorporating side stories or unexpected elements to maintain engagement.
   - **Community Engagement:** Actively engage with your audience through comments and social media. Consider implementing a reciprocity strategy by acknowledging and rewarding loyal viewers.
   - **Leverage Psychological Principles:** Experiment with scarcity by creating anticipation for upcoming videos. Use social proof to your advantage by highlighting popular content.
   - **Analyze and Adjust:** Regularly review analytics to understand viewer behavior and refine content strategies. Focus on improving audience retention and engagement metrics.

By integrating these strategies, creators can effectively grow their YouTube channels, fostering a loyal audience and enhancing overall channel performance.

## 🚀 QUICK START (Do Today)
1. Test the laws of writing good videos in your next piece of content
2. Measure your current baseline before applying these tactics

## 🔧 CORE FRAMEWORKS
### laws of writing good videos

### laws of writing good videos

### But I like that framework

### We have like some principle

### So typically if you're doing a longer video you should introduce like a side story and like read you should have some plan halfway through like to reengage them so they'll just get bored you know what I mean like if I just said like if I hand you a camera and I had a camera it's like okay if he tags me he gets a hundred grand and then I just run and that's it it's just me running through the woods and him just running through the woods after me you can't make a 15 minute video out of it you know what I mean but if I do that and then like three minutes in I pull a lever and a bear comes out start chasing him and he has to get away from the bear I don't know obviously we wouldn't do this but kill the bear and then he starts chasing me and then six minutes in I jump across the lake and as he goes to jump through I press a button that shoots him to the moon whatever you know what I mean like now of a sudden it's interesting and you're watching right and that's it right one is just a single story and it's boring the other has side stories that like re-engaged people what is the recipe to a like successful try guys video if you look at it and you're like I know right now what's gonna work or what what performs we don't make as many classic try videos we you know food has been our best successor but there's a through line in all of them which is we are going to do something that is related to a commonly held passion or identity so whether that's ballet oh I grew up doing the play or my little sister did or I've always wondered what that's like or making a pie and then we have an expert who is going to be the source of authority yeah and now we get to be the crash test dummies then there's a lot with how we craft that as well which is you know contrast editing so experts says now no matter what don't do this cut to Keith doing this right that's and also we like to have an arc most of our best videos we'll follow a three-act structure we have a first act break at the second act break we do have the dark night of the soul where the characters at their lowest so that we can then see them triumphantly rise and use something they learned earlier and succeed and I think a lot of our best videos also have to have some stakes whether that's a performance or got it feeding what we've done to a judge that's also a sense of reveal but we've learned a ton on how to structure videos based on audience retention and that's learning that once they see the big reveal at the end the video is over so now if you have any reflection where we've gone through this incredibly transformative emotional experience you need to start hearing the reflection during the final performance the final reveal whatever because once we're done revealing you got 30 seconds videos over when I pitched to a brand I always talk about like the psychology of consumption this is now this is some cringe stuff all marketing um I don't know if you guys know but like the principles of influence let's hear how we consume things and our influence by things every bit of feeling and emotion we evoke can be categorized into one of these six things scarcity when you say someone is mysterious and has aura that's what psychologically you're trying to describe like you upload once every eight months and it's like a big deal that's a Michael Reeves that's like you know someone who's uploading high quality low quantity content that's get people like that right consistency the opposite of that in a sense it's like uploading every day like it's almost like when you come home from school or work it's like oh I'm gonna watch this creator I've come to like almost make it a part of my routine and you could also combine those two right like you can upload every year but you do so consistently so you can combine those two principles of influence reciprocity that was a big part of kid with crocs where it's like this is a new account and I am kid with crocs I would always respond to fans and like the first thousand people that followed me I followed them back and like just had full conversations with them and so now these people are like rooting for me and in a way like I am not like like manipulatively thankful like I'm just thankful like you're here for the star and like I would talk to them and like those thousand people who I like gave reciprocity to were in it from this first second to the last second and like now they're like fans of what I do and like that's such a like lovely feeling both ways right consensus or social liking this is super important it's like you are more likely to watch a video that already has a million likes because it is that social proof like oh it already people already like it right it's the same reason why it's really hard to go from an account with you know zero followers zero likes to a thousand likes but it's pretty easy to go from like a million likes to a million and a half likes right yeah yeah that's kind of an obvious one similarity it's what we talked about before it's like you want something that feels similar but is ultimately different and creative that's where like creativity comes in right you need to be able to understand how people consume content and then like innovate on that right so it's like you know there's best practices like having your face in the first frame and like having text on the screen but also like if you follow every single thing in the rule book people won't care it's already been done right and that's where like some of my weird creative urges come out where it's like I have a character and I animate and I make music for the videos right and then authority it's like if you it's like if you're a doctor like doctor Mike right people should care about that or if you're already a big creator you already have that like yep paythos right is that like a smart word chat is that smart I'm seeing some nods in the back let's go right sorry to yeah so those that is how I think about how culture and consumption works and this is all been deep rooted in my brain and I learned this in AP psych back in like sophomore year of high school as I started like making content and this set of guidelines is like not failed me you one time told me about hiding the vegetables hmm I'm curious if you can explain that concept 100% um hiding the vegetables is like one of the core principle

## 📊 PROVEN TACTICS (With Metrics)
- **2** - ver 2,500 videos uploaded to YouTube. That's over 2 million videos a day. So if you're someone who wants to s

## 🧠 PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLES
- **Scarcity:** e can be categorized into one of these six things scarcity when you say someone is mysterious and has aura t
- **Consistency:** uantity content that's get people like that right consistency the opposite of that in a sense it's like uploadi
- **Promise:** tle thumbnail list with like a reasonable hook or promise. I don't even like the word hook because it sound
- **Promise:** n like the word hook because it sounds too like a promise. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Just like a promise.
- **Promise:** a promise. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Just like a promise. What is the video actually about? You know, the

## ✅ QUALITY CHECK
**Coverage:** 67.0% of key elements extracted
**Gaps:** No verbatim terms preserved
**Found:** 5 frameworks, 1 metrics